This is the weekly thread for career and education questions and advice. There are no stupid questions; so, what do *you* want to know about certs/degrees, job requirements, and any other general cybersecurity career questions? Ask away! Interested in what other people are asking, or think your question has been asked before? Have a look through prior weeks of content - though we're working on making this more easily searchable for the future. Hey r/cybersecurity, I'm currently at the start of a master's in Cybersecurity after finishing a bachelor's in computer engineering, and I'm starting to worry a bit. While the theory is interesting, I'm realizing the program has almost zero practical component. Everything is covered in a big picture way and from the few software mentioned only 2 or 3 command-line arguments are actually explored. I'm worried that when I graduate, I'll have a fancy piece of paper but won't survive a basic technical interview for a SOC Analyst or Threat Detection role. My coding is decent from my undergrad, but I've never touched a SIEM or deep-dived into Wireshark or done actual incident response. Dabbled around a bit in pentesting with CTFs back in the day, but I wouldn't say I've learned enough to be useful in the workforce. From my small research it seems easier to find a post-graduation job in the Blue Teaming side of the field and my plan is to self-study and certify in parallel to my degree. I can't afford very expensive certifications and was looking more towards budget friendly ones (SC-200, TCM PSAA). **TL;DR**: Master's in Cybersecurity is giving me theory but no practical skills. Planning to get certifications for Blue Team jobs. Is that a good plan? What certs/experience actually matter? Thanks in advance for your insights! I’m looking to improve our deals / contracts for several cyber security solutions I’m managing. Is there anyone with more experience in this area? E.g. What’s the most effective strategy to get a good deal on cyber security solutions? Anyone any experience with the vendor side on how discounts are reviewed/ given? How much % of discount should you expect in comparison with the list price? The deals for the solutions I manage are between 100-700k usd value, some multi year contracts. Hey so I am job hunting and I have 2 interesting job offers. One is a SOC analyst role within a 24/7 shift model. The other is a Sysadmin role within a company in a field I worked in for 7 years. I would be one of two responsible for the Cybersecurity. Their plan is that the have an internal ISO as they aim for ISO27001 audits in the next 24 months My background is that of a system administrator with some security responsibilities. As my old job doesn't really care for Cybersecurity the responsibilities weren't defined and management always made verbal exceptions for themselves. So my question is as the payment for the SOC analyst is higher (mostly due to shift payments) but the Sysadmin role is easier to fill: What would be my options in 3-5 years with the SOC Analyst position? Or would I go into some sort of dead end and would I be stock in SOC or SOC related responsibilities in the future even if I change the company So recently I saw a research paper talking about how the time it takes for a user to receive a message varies depending on whether their phone is on, off, or if they have WhatsApp open and how we can exploit it. So I added the same module in RABIDS that lets you track anyone you just need to know their phone number. What the exploit is doing is spamming a reaction on a message every 50ms. This does not generate a notification, and then it checks how long the reaction takes to get a double tick and plots it on a graph. As you can see, the dots are around 1500ms and then they jump to 2500ms and then back to 1500ms. The 1500ms is the time the victim was on the WhatsApp app, and the 2500ms is when the victim closed WhatsApp or locked their phone. If the victim was in a different app, it would have been around 2000ms consistently. From this we can even figure out which mobile brand the user has like iPhones take around 1000ms and Samsung devices around 500ms and also whether the victim is on cellular or WiFi. On cellular the graph becomes pretty erratic. All these numbers are from this research paper [https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11194](https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11194) and this video [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HHEQVXNCrW8&t=149s](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HHEQVXNCrW8&t=149s) This is just an onsint tool that lets you see the habits of the victim on WhatsApp and maybe even see if two people are talking (I don’t know, I haven’t tested that and don’t have rules for it). I’ve added the beta version on my GitHub feel free to test it out it’s called Silent Whispers. edit: People accusing me for copying this post, i have been talking to my friends about this technique for the past 2 days and havent seen this post until now, if anyone want proof let me know [https://www.reddit.com/r/cybersecurity/comments/1pgmvtk/how\_almost\_any\_phone\_number\_can\_be\_tracked\_via/](https://www.reddit.com/r/cybersecurity/comments/1pgmvtk/how_almost_any_phone_number_can_be_tracked_via/) [https://github.com/sarwarerror/RABIDS](https://github.com/sarwarerror/RABIDS) [https://x.com/sarwaroffline](https://x.com/sarwaroffline) I want to start learning about cybersecurity and eventually get into bug bounties and I was wondering whether I should follow the CCNA or network+ exam curriculum if I want to learn the networking part of cybersecurity and ethical hacking. Anyone know any FUD Crypters that are reliable in 2025, just for research purposes looking for a windows one. This is just for my project for College and educational I am writing a paper for my Cyber Security class. It always boggles my mind how hacking is still possible. Cyber security primitives are so strong and cheap. TLS 1.3, WPA 3, open source firewalls, and open DLP. The list just keeps going, and now the hardware is getting cheaper. Things like YUBIKEYs and YUBI HSMs are relatively cheap. Now that smartphones have their own security enclaves that’s like a baby HSM. When I see a data breach I check the algorithms they used and they are secure. Are hackers just mathematical wizards? Howdy folks - former red teamer (a lot of my work is available under the rad9800 alias, if you're interested in malware - check it out!) now building the product to catch me/and in turn the many other adversaries running the same playbooks. We offer a paid deception platform, but I wanted to make a free tier actually useful. What's free: * AWS Access Keys (10) * AWS Bedrock Keys (2) * S3 Bucket tokens (2) * SSH Private Keys (20) No credit card, no trial expiry. Just drop your email, get credentials, plant them where they shouldn't be touched. We have 12 other token types in the paid version, and will slowly expand these out in this edition depending on feedback/and increasing limits based on what's being used/what folk want. Additionally - something unique about our AWS Access Keys in particular you can specify the username and they're allocated from a pool of 1000s of accounts so they're hard/impossible to fingerprint (prove me wrong, I'll be curious). When someone uses them, you get an alert (via email, which is why we need your email - else we wouldn't!) with: * Source IP + geolocation * ASN/org lookup * VPN/Tor/proxy detection * User agent * Timestamp * Any additional unstructured event metadata Why these token types? They're the ones I'd actually look for on an engagement. Hardcoded AWS creds in repos, SSH keys in backup folders, that `.env` file someone forgot to gitignore. If an attacker finds them, you want to reveal these internal breaches. I've written one or two blogs about "Read Teaming" and the trend (and more than happy to chat about it) No catch? The catch is I'm hoping some of you upgrade when you need more coverage/scale and/or feedback on this! But the free tier isn't crippled - it is very much the same detection pipeline we use for paying customers! Link: [https://starter.deceptiq.com](https://starter.deceptiq.com/) More than happy/excited to answer questions about the detection methodology or token placement strategies. Over the last years, Industrial Control Systems (ICS) have become increasingly exposed to a wide range of cyber-physical threats. Efficient models and techniques able to capture their complex structure and identify critical cyber-physical components are therefore essential. AND/OR graphs have proven very useful in this context as they are able to semantically grasp intricate logical interdependencies among ICS components. However, identifying critical nodes in AND/OR graphs is an NP-complete problem. In addition, ICS settings normally involve various cyber and physical security measures that simultaneously protect multiple ICS components in overlapping manners, which makes this problem even harder. In this paper, we present an extended security metric based on AND/OR hypergraphs which efficiently identifies the set of critical ICS components and security measures that should be compromised, with minimum cost (effort) for an attacker, in order to disrupt the operation of vital ICS assets. Our approach relies on MAX-SAT techniques, which we have incorporated in META4ICS, a Java-based security metric analyser for ICS. We also provide a thorough performance evaluation that shows the feasibility of our method. Finally, we illustrate our methodology through a case study in which we analyse the security posture of a realistic Water Transport Network (WTN). Cyber ranges mimic real-world cyber environments and are in high demand. Before building their own cyber ranges, organizations need to deeply understand what construction supplies are available to them. A fundamental supply is the cyber range architecture, which prompts an important research question: Which cyber range architecture is most appropriate for an organization's requirements? To answer this question, we propose an innovative framework to specify cyber range requirements, characterize cyber range architectures (based on our analysis of 45 cyber range architectures), and match cyber range architectures to cyber range requirements. Cyber-physical systems are at the intersection of digital technology and engineering domains, rendering them high-value targets of sophisticated and well-funded cybersecurity threat actors. Prominent cybersecurity attacks on CPS have brought attention to the vulnerability of these systems and the inherent weaknesses of critical infrastructure reliant on them. Security modelling for CPS is an important mechanism to systematically identify and assess vulnerabilities, threats, and risks throughout system life cycles, and to ultimately ensure system resilience, safety, and reliability. This survey delves into state-of-the-art research on CPS security modelling, encompassing both threat and attack modelling. While these terms are sometimes used interchangeably, they are different concepts. This paper elaborates on the differences between threat and attack modelling, examining their implications for CPS security. We conducted a systematic search that yielded 449 papers, from which 32 were selected and categorised into three clusters: those focused on threat modelling methods, attack modelling methods, and literature reviews. Specifically, we sought to examine what security modelling methods exist today, and how they address real-world cybersecurity threats and CPS-specific attacker capabilities throughout the life cycle of CPS, which typically span longer durations compared to traditional IT systems. This paper also highlights several limitations in existing research, wherein security models adopt simplistic approaches that do not adequately consider the dynamic, multi-layer, multi-path, and multi-agent characteristics of real-world cyber-physical attacks. Quantum computing is a cutting-edge field of information technology that harnesses the principles of quantum mechanics to perform computations. It has major implications for the cyber security industry. Existing cyber protection applications are working well, but there are still challenges and vulnerabilities in computer networks. Sometimes data and privacy are also compromised. These complications lead to research questions asking what kind of cyber protection applications of quantum computing are there and what potential methods or techniques can be used for cyber protection? These questions will reveal how much power quantum computing has and to what extent it can outperform the conventional computing systems. This scoping review was conducted by considering 815 papers. It showed the possibilities that can be achievedif quantum technologies are implemented in cyber environments. This scoping review discusses various domains such as algorithms and applications, bioinformatics, cloud and edge computing, the organization of complex systems, application areas focused on security and threats, and the broader quantum computing ecosystem. In each of these areas, there is significant scope for quantum computing to be implemented and to revolutionize the working environment. Numerous quantum computing applications for cyber protection and a number of techniques to protect our data and privacy were identified. The results are not limited to network security but also include data security. This paper also discusses societal aspects, e.g., the applications of quantum computing in the social sciences. This scoping review discusses how to enhance the efficiency and security of quantum computing in various cyber security domains. Additionally, it encourages the reader to think about what kind of techniques and methods can be deployed to secure the cyber world. The fields of study encompassed by cyber science and engineering are broad and poorly defined at this time. As national governments and research communities increase their recognition of the importance, urgency and technical richness of these disciplines, a question of priorities arises: what specific sub-areas of research should be the foci of attention and funding? In this paper we point to an approach to answering this question. We explore results of a recent workshop that postulated possible game-changers or disruptive changes that might occur in cyber security within the next 15 years. We suggest that such game-changers may be useful in focusing attention of research communities on high-priority topics. Indeed, if a drastic, important change is likely to occur, should we not focus our research efforts on the nature and ramifications of the phenomena pertaining to that change? We illustrate each of the game-changers examples of related current research, and then offer recommendations for advancement of cyber science and engineering with respect to each of the six game-changers. The various types of communication technologies and mobility features in Internet of Things (IoT) on the one hand enable fruitful and attractive applications, but on the other hand facilitates malware propagation, thereby raising new challenges on handling IoT-empowered malware for cyber security. Comparing with the malware propagation control scheme in traditional wireless networks where nodes can be directly repaired and secured, in IoT, compromised end devices are difficult to be patched. Alternatively, blocking malware via patching intermediate nodes turns out to be a more feasible and practical solution. Specifically, patching intermediate nodes can effectively prevent the proliferation of malware propagation by securing infrastructure links and limiting malware propagation to local device-to-device dissemination. This article proposes a novel traffic-aware patching scheme to select important intermediate nodes to patch, which applies to the IoT system with limited patching resources and response time constraint. Experiments on real-world trace datasets in IoT networks are conducted to demonstrate the advantage of the proposed traffic-aware patching scheme in alleviating malware propagation. In this case study, we describe the design and assembly of a cyber security testbed at Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Oak Ridge, TN, USA. The range is designed to provide agile reconfigurations to facilitate a wide variety of experiments for evaluations of cyber security tools -- particularly those involving AI/ML. In particular, the testbed provides realistic test environments while permitting control and programmatic observations/data collection during the experiments. We have designed in the ability to repeat the evaluations, so additional tools can be evaluated and compared at a later time. The system is one that can be scaled up or down for experiment sizes. At the time of the conference we will have completed two full-scale, national, government challenges on this range. These challenges are evaluating the performance and operating costs for AI/ML-based cyber security tools for application into large, government-sized networks. These evaluations will be described as examples providing motivation and context for various design decisions and adaptations we have made. The first challenge measured end-point security tools against 100K file samples (benignware and malware) chosen across a range of file types. The second is an evaluation of network intrusion detection systems efficacy in identifying multi-step adversarial campaigns -- involving reconnaissance, penetration and exploitations, lateral movement, etc. -- with varying levels of covertness in a high-volume business network. The scale of each of these challenges requires automation systems to repeat, or simultaneously mirror identical the experiments for each ML tool under test. Providing an array of easy-to-difficult malicious activity for sussing out the true abilities of the AI/ML tools has been a particularly interesting and challenging aspect of designing and executing these challenge events. The recent advancement of information and communication technology makes digitalisation of an entire manufacturing shop-floor possible where physical processes are tightly intertwined with their cyber counterparts. This led to an emergence of a concept of digital twin, which is a realistic virtual copy of a physical object. Digital twin will be the key technology in Cyber-Physical Production Systems (CPPS) and its market is expected to grow significantly in the coming years. Nevertheless, digital twin is still relatively a new concept that people have different perspectives on its requirements, capabilities, and limitations. To better understand an effect of digital twin's operations, mitigate complexity of capturing dynamics of physical phenomena, and improve analysis and predictability, it is important to have a development tool with a strong semantic foundation that can accurately model, simulate, and synthesise the digital twin. This paper reviews current state-of-art on tools and developments of digital twin in manufacturing and discusses potential design challenges. In recent years, Industrial Control Systems (ICS) have become an appealing target for cyber attacks, having massive destructive consequences. Security metrics are therefore essential to assess their security posture. In this paper, we present a novel ICS security metric based on AND/OR graphs that represent cyber-physical dependencies among network components. Our metric is able to efficiently identify sets of critical cyber-physical components, with minimal cost for an attacker, such that if compromised, the system would enter into a non-operational state. We address this problem by efficiently transforming the input AND/OR graph-based model into a weighted logical formula that is then used to build and solve a Weighted Partial MAX-SAT problem. Our tool, META4ICS, leverages state-of-the-art techniques from the field of logical satisfiability optimisation in order to achieve efficient computation times. Our experimental results indicate that the proposed security metric can efficiently scale to networks with thousands of nodes and be computed in seconds. In addition, we present a case study where we have used our system to analyse the security posture of a realistic water transport network. We discuss our findings on the plant as well as further security applications of our metric. There is a pressing need to interconnect physical systems such as power grid and vehicles for efficient management and safe operations. Owing to the diverse features of physical systems, there is hardly a one-size-fits-all networking solution for developing cyber-physical systems. Network slicing is a promising technology that allows network operators to create multiple virtual networks on top of a shared network infrastructure. These virtual networks can be tailored to meet the requirements of different cyber-physical systems. However, it is challenging to design secure network slicing solutions that can efficiently create end-to-end network slices for diverse cyber-physical systems. In this article, we discuss the challenges and security issues of network slicing, study learning-assisted network slicing solutions, and analyze their performance under the denial-of-service attack. We also present a design and implementation of a small-scale testbed for evaluating the network slicing solutions. The escalating frequency and sophistication of cyber threats increased the need for their comprehensive understanding. This paper explores the intersection of geopolitical dynamics, cyber threat intelligence analysis, and advanced detection technologies, with a focus on the energy domain. We leverage generative artificial intelligence to extract and structure information from raw cyber threat descriptions, enabling enhanced analysis. By conducting a geopolitical comparison of threat actor origins and target regions across multiple databases, we provide insights into trends within the general threat landscape. Additionally, we evaluate the effectiveness of cybersecurity tools -- with particular emphasis on learning-based techniques -- in detecting indicators of compromise for energy-targeted attacks. This analysis yields new insights, providing actionable information to researchers, policy makers, and cybersecurity professionals. This paper provides an overview of research programs in cyber security performed by the U.S Army Research Laboratory. Although ARL is the U.S. Army's corporate laboratory that focuses on fundamental and early applied research, the fundamental science endeavors are closely integrated with extensive operationally-oriented programs. One example is the Cyber Collaborative Research Alliance (CRA) that brings together ARL scientists with academic researchers from dozens of U.S. universities. ARL cyber scientists are largely driven by challenges unique to the ground operations of the Army; this paper outlines a few of these challenges and the ways in which they are addressed by ARL research efforts. The long-term campaign of cyber research is guided by the vision of the future Army battlefield. In the year 2040, it will be a highly converged virtual-physical space, where cyber operations will be an integral part of the battle. The threats faced by cyber-physical systems (CPSs) in critical infrastructure have motivated the development of different attack detection mechanisms, such as those that monitor for violations of invariants, i.e. properties that always hold in normal operation. Given the complexity of CPSs, several existing approaches focus on deriving invariants automatically from data logs, but these can miss possible system behaviours if they are not represented in that data. Furthermore, resolving any design flaws identified in this process is costly, as the CPS is already built. In this position paper, we propose a systematic method for deriving invariants before a CPS is built by analysing its functional requirements. Our method, inspired by the axiomatic design methodology for systems, iteratively analyses dependencies in the design to construct equations and process graphs that model the invariant relationships between CPS components. As a preliminary study, we applied it to the design of a water treatment plant testbed, implementing checkers for two invariants by using decision trees, and finding that they could detect some examples of attacks on the testbed with high accuracy and without false positives. Finally, we explore how developing our method further could lead to more robust CPSs and reduced costs by identifying design weaknesses before systems are implemented. Maritime shipping has become a trillion-dollar industry that now impacts the economy of virtually every country around the world. It is therefore no surprise that countries and companies have spent billions of dollars to modernize shipping vessels and ports with various technologies. However, the implementation of these technologies has also caught the attention of cybercriminals. For example, a cyberattack on one shipping company resulted in nearly $300 millions in financial losses. Hence, this paper describes cybersecurity vulnerabilities present in the international shipping business. The contribution of this paper is the identification and dissection of cyber vulnerabilities specific to the shipping industry, along with how and why these potential vulnerabilities exist. Incident management is a classical topic in cyber security. Recently, the European Union (EU) has started to consider also the relation between cyber security incidents and cyber security crises. These considerations and preparations, including those specified in the EU's new cyber security laws, constitute the paper's topic. According to an analysis of the laws and associated policy documents, (i) cyber security crises are equated in the EU to large-scale cyber security incidents that either exceed a handling capacity of a single member state or affect at least two member states. For this and other purposes, (ii) the new laws substantially increase mandatory reporting about cyber security incidents, including but not limited to the large-scale incidents. Despite the laws and new governance bodies established by them, however, (iii) the working of actual cyber security crisis management remains unclear particularly at the EU-level. With these policy research results, the paper advances the domain of cyber security incident management research by elaborating how European law perceives cyber security crises and their relation to cyber security incidents, paving the way for many relevant further research topics with practical relevance, whether theoretical, conceptual, or empirical. Autonomous Cyber Defence is required to respond to high-tempo cyber-attacks. To facilitate the research in this challenging area, we explore the utility of the autonomous cyber operation environments presented as part of the Cyber Autonomy Gym for Experimentation (CAGE) Challenges, with a specific focus on CAGE Challenge 2. CAGE Challenge 2 required a defensive Blue agent to defend a network from an attacking Red agent. We provide a detailed description of the this challenge and describe the approaches taken by challenge participants. From the submitted agents, we identify four classes of algorithms, namely, Single- Agent Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL), Hierarchical DRL, Ensembles, and Non-DRL approaches. Of these classes, we found that the hierarchical DRL approach was the most capable of learning an effective cyber defensive strategy. Our analysis of the agent policies identified that different algorithms within the same class produced diverse strategies and that the strategy used by the defensive Blue agent varied depending on the strategy used by the offensive Red agent. We conclude that DRL algorithms are a suitable candidate for autonomous cyber defence applications. Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable success in software engineering tasks when trained with executable runtime environments, particularly in resolving GitHub issues. However, such runtime environments are often unavailable in other domains, especially cybersecurity, where challenge configurations and execution contexts are ephemeral or restricted. We present Cyber-Zero, the first runtime-free framework for synthesizing high-quality agent trajectories to train cybersecurity LLMs. Cyber-Zero leverages publicly available CTF writeups and employs persona-driven LLM simulation to reverse-engineer runtime behaviors and generate realistic, long-horizon interaction sequences without actual environments. Using trajectories synthesized by Cyber-Zero, we train LLM-based agents that achieve up to 13.1% absolute performance gains over baseline models on three prominent CTF benchmarks: InterCode-CTF, NYU CTF Bench, and Cybench. Our best model, Cyber-Zero-32B, establishes new state-of-the-art performance among open-weight models, matching the capabilities of proprietary systems like DeepSeek-V3-0324 and Claude-3.5-Sonnet while offering superior cost-effectiveness, and demonstrating that runtime-free trajectory synthesis can effectively democratize the development of state-of-the-art cybersecurity agents. Current research on users` perspectives of cyber security and privacy related to traditional and smart devices at home is very active, but the focus is often more on specific modern devices such as mobile and smart IoT devices in a home context. In addition, most were based on smaller-scale empirical studies such as online surveys and interviews. We endeavour to fill these research gaps by conducting a larger-scale study based on a real-world dataset of 413,985 tweets posted by non-expert users on Twitter in six months of three consecutive years (January and February in 2019, 2020 and 2021). Two machine learning-based classifiers were developed to identify the 413,985 tweets. We analysed this dataset to understand non-expert users` cyber security and privacy perspectives, including the yearly trend and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. We applied topic modelling, sentiment analysis and qualitative analysis of selected tweets in the dataset, leading to various interesting findings. For instance, we observed a 54% increase in non-expert users` tweets on cyber security and/or privacy related topics in 2021, compared to before the start of global COVID-19 lockdowns (January 2019 to February 2020). We also observed an increased level of help-seeking tweets during the COVID-19 pandemic. Our analysis revealed a diverse range of topics discussed by non-expert users across the three years, including VPNs, Wi-Fi, smartphones, laptops, smart home devices, financial security, and security and privacy issues involving different stakeholders. Overall negative sentiment was observed across almost all topics non-expert users discussed on Twitter in all the three years. Our results confirm the multi-faceted nature of non-expert users` perspectives on cyber security and privacy and call for more holistic, comprehensive and nuanced research on different facets of such perspectives. Given the rapid evolution of threats to cyber systems, new management approaches are needed that address risk across all interdependent domains (i.e., physical, information, cognitive, and social) of cyber systems. Further, the traditional approach of hardening of cyber systems against identified threats has proven to be impossible. Therefore, in the same way that biological systems develop immunity as a way to respond to infections and other attacks, so too must cyber systems adapt to ever-changing threats that continue to attack vital system functions, and to bounce back from the effects of the attacks. Here, we explain the basic concepts of resilience in the context of systems, discuss related properties, and make business case of cyber resilience. We also offer a brief summary of ways to assess cyber resilience of a system, and approaches to improving cyber resilience. The present paper focuses on Cyber Security Awareness Campaigns, and aims to identify key factors regarding security which may lead them to failing to appropriately change people's behaviour. Past and current efforts to improve information-security practices and promote a sustainable society have not had the desired impact. It is important therefore to critically reflect on the challenges involved in improving information-security behaviours for citizens, consumers and employees. In particular, our work considers these challenges from a Psychology perspective, as we believe that understanding how people perceive risks is critical to creating effective awareness campaigns. Changing behaviour requires more than providing information about risks and reactive behaviours - firstly, people must be able to understand and apply the advice, and secondly, they must be motivated and willing to do so - and the latter requires changes to attitudes and intentions. These antecedents of behaviour change are identified in several psychological models of behaviour. We review the suitability of persuasion techniques, including the widely used 'fear appeals'. From this range of literature, we extract essential components for an awareness campaign as well as factors which can lead to a campaign's success or failure. Finally, we present examples of existing awareness campaigns in different cultures (the UK and Africa) and reflect on these. The increasing dependency of modern society on IT systems and infrastructures for essential services (e.g. internet banking, vehicular network, health-IT, etc.) coupled with the growing number of cyber incidents and security vulnerabilities have made Cyber Security Operations Centre (CSOC) undoubtedly vital. As such security operations monitoring is now an integral part of most business operations. SOCs (used interchangeably as CSOCs) are responsible for continuously and protectively monitoring business services, IT systems and infrastructures to identify vulnerabilities, detect cyber-attacks, security breaches, policy violations, and to respond to cyber incidents swiftly. They must also ensure that security events and alerts are triaged and analysed, while coordinating and managing cyber incidents to resolution. Because SOCs are vital, it is also necessary that SOCs are effective. But unfortunately, the effectiveness of SOCs are a widespread concern and a focus of boundless debate. In this paper, we identify and discuss some of the pertinent challenges to building an effective SOC. We investigate some of the factors contributing to the inefficiencies in SOCs and explain some of the challenges they face. Further, we provide and prioritise recommendations to addressing the identified issues. Designing rewards for autonomous cyber attack and defense learning agents in a complex, dynamic environment is a challenging task for subject matter experts. We propose a large language model (LLM)-based reward design approach to generate autonomous cyber defense policies in a deep reinforcement learning (DRL)-driven experimental simulation environment. Multiple attack and defense agent personas were crafted, reflecting heterogeneity in agent actions, to generate LLM-guided reward designs where the LLM was first provided with contextual cyber simulation environment information. These reward structures were then utilized within a DRL-driven attack-defense simulation environment to learn an ensemble of cyber defense policies. Our results suggest that LLM-guided reward designs can lead to effective defense strategies against diverse adversarial behaviors. Cyber-attacks have become as commonplace as the Internet itself. Each year, industry reports, media outlets and academic articles highlight this increased prevalence, spanning both the amount and variety of attacks and cybercrimes. In this article, we seek to further advance discussions on cyber threats, cognitive vulnerabilities and cyberpsychology through a critical reflection on the social and psychological aspects related to cyber-attacks. In particular, we are interested in understanding how members of the public perceive and engage with risk and how they are impacted during and after a cyber-attack has occurred. This research focuses on key cognitive issues relevant to comprehending public reactions to malicious cyber events including risk perception, protection motivation, culture, and attacker characteristics (e.g., attacker identity, target identity and scale of attack). To consider the applicability of our findings, we investigate two significant cyber-attacks over the last few years, namely the WannaCry attack of 2017 and the Lloyds Banking Group attack in the same year. We compare and contrast situation awareness in cyber warfare and in conventional, kinetic warfare. Situation awareness (SA) has a far longer history of study and applications in such areas as control of complex enterprises and in conventional warfare, than in cyber warfare. Far more is known about the SA in conventional military conflicts, or adversarial engagements, than in cyber ones. By exploring what is known about SA in conventional, also commonly referred to as kinetic, battles, we may gain insights and research directions relevant to cyber conflicts. We discuss the nature of SA in conventional (often called kinetic) conflict, review what is known about this kinetic SA (KSA), and then offer a comparison with what is currently understood regarding the cyber SA (CSA). We find that challenges and opportunities of KSA and CSA are similar or at least parallel in several important ways. With respect to similarities, in both kinetic and cyber worlds, SA strongly impacts the outcome of the mission. Also similarly, cognitive biases are found in both KSA and CSA. As an example of differences, KSA often relies on commonly accepted, widely used organizing representation - map of the physical terrain of the battlefield. No such common representation has emerged in CSA, yet. The current global pandemic occasioned by the SARS-CoV-2 virus has been attributed, partially, to the growing range of cyber vises within the cyber ecosystem. One area of such impact is the increasing tendencies of cyber-bullying among students. Cyberbullying -- the act of subjugating others using a cyber platform -- is a growing concern among educators, especially in High-S chools. Whilst studies have been carried out towards understanding this menace, the approach towards id entifying indicators of cyberbullying is largely missing in the literature. To address this research gap, this study proposed a cyberbullying framework based on the identification of some observable behavioral indicators. Using a self-administered measurement instrument from 30-respondents, the study observed the probability of a cyberbully construct, as a potential measure of the presence of cyberbullying; a probability that has been largely ignored in extant literature. This observation presents a veritable tool for the development of an active and integrated learning platform void of abuse among students. Furthermore, within the cyber education ecosystem, a cyberbullying construct would provide a mechanism for the development of an appropriate online learning platform, which would be useful to the information system and cyber education research communities. Cyber-physical systems posit a complex number of security challenges due to interconnection of heterogeneous devices having limited processing, communication, and power capabilities. Additionally, the conglomeration of both physical and cyber-space further makes it difficult to devise a single security plan spanning both these spaces. Cyber-security researchers are often overloaded with a variety of cyber-alerts on a daily basis many of which turn out to be false positives. In this paper, we use machine learning and natural language processing techniques to predict the consequences of cyberattacks. The idea is to enable security researchers to have tools at their disposal that makes it easier to communicate the attack consequences with various stakeholders who may have little to no cybersecurity expertise. Additionally, with the proposed approach researchers' cognitive load can be reduced by automatically predicting the consequences of attacks in case new attacks are discovered. We compare the performance through various machine learning models employing word vectors obtained using both tf-idf and Doc2Vec models. In our experiments, an accuracy of 60% was obtained using tf-idf features and 57% using Doc2Vec method for models based on LinearSVC model. COVID-19 has caused widespread damage across many areas of life and has made humans more dependent on the internet and technology making us realize the importance of secure remote working environments. While social separation is encouraged during moments of lockdown, online infrastructure has become the central focus for communication, commerce, working, and learning, creating a new challenge and trend for companies to adopt new methods and operating models. The cases of cyber-attacks increased, and fraudsters and cybercriminals took use of this to intensify their illegal activities by taking advantage of remote workers' vulnerabilities and the public's interest in information about the coronavirus. This paper examines the different types of security threats and cyber crimes that people faced in the pandemic time and the need for a safe and secure cyber infrastructure. This paper attempts to analyze the security implications of the issues. The performance of artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms in practice depends on the realism and correctness of the data, models, and feedback (labels or rewards) provided to the algorithm. This paper discusses methods for improving the realism and ecological validity of AI used for autonomous cyber defense by exploring the potential to use Inverse Reinforcement Learning (IRL) to gain insight into attacker actions, utilities of those actions, and ultimately decision points which cyber deception could thwart. The Tularosa study, as one example, provides experimental data of real-world techniques and tools commonly used by attackers, from which core data vectors can be leveraged to inform an autonomous cyber defense system. Industry 4.0 is a blend of the hyper-connected digital industry within two world of Information Technology (IT) and Operational Technology (OT). With this amalgamate opportunity, smart manufacturing involves production assets with the manufacturing equipment having its own intelligence, while the system-wide intelligence is provided by the cyber layer. However Smart manufacturing now becomes one of the prime targets of cyber threats due to vulnerabilities in the existing process of operation. Since smart manufacturing covers a vast area of production industries from cyber physical system to additive manufacturing, to autonomous vehicles, to cloud based IIoT (Industrial IoT), to robotic production, cyber threat stands out with this regard questioning about how to connect manufacturing resources by network, how to integrate a whole process chain for a factory production etc. Cybersecurity confidentiality, integrity and availability expose their essential existence for the proper operational thread model known as digital thread ensuring secure manufacturing. In this work, a literature survey is presented from the existing threat models, attack vectors and future challenges over the digital thread of smart manufacturing. In this chapter, we present an approach using formal methods to synthesize reactive defense strategy in a cyber network, equipped with a set of decoy systems. We first generalize formal graphical security models--attack graphs--to incorporate defender's countermeasures in a game-theoretic model, called an attack-defend game on graph. This game captures the dynamic interactions between the defender and the attacker and their defense/attack objectives in formal logic. Then, we introduce a class of hypergames to model asymmetric information created by decoys in the attacker-defender interactions. Given qualitative security specifications in formal logic, we show that the solution concepts from hypergames and reactive synthesis in formal methods can be extended to synthesize effective dynamic defense strategy using cyber deception. The strategy takes the advantages of the misperception of the attacker to ensure security specification is satisfied, which may not be satisfiable when the information is symmetric. We extract firms' cyber risk with a machine learning algorithm measuring the proximity between their disclosures and a dedicated cyber corpus. Our approach outperforms dictionary methods, uses full disclosure and not devoted-only sections, and generates a cyber risk measure uncorrelated with other firms' characteristics. We find that a portfolio of US-listed stocks in the high cyber risk quantile generates an excess return of 18.72% p.a. Moreover, a long-short cyber risk portfolio has a significant and positive risk premium of 6.93% p.a., robust to all factors' benchmarks. Finally, using a Bayesian asset pricing method, we show that our cyber risk factor is the essential feature that allows any multi-factor model to price the cross-section of stock returns. Cyberattacks pose a significant business risk to organizations. Although there is ample literature focusing on why people pose a major risk to organizational cybersecurity and how to deal with it, there is surprisingly little we know about cyber and information security decision-makers who are essentially the people in charge of setting up and maintaining organizational cybersecurity. In this paper, we study cybersecurity awareness of cyber and information security decision-makers, and investigate factors associated with it. We conducted an online survey among Slovenian cyber and information security decision-makers (N=283) to (1) determine whether their cybersecurity awareness is associated with adoption of antimalware solutions in their organizations, and (2) explore which organizational factors and personal characteristics are associated with their cybersecurity awareness. Our findings indicate that awareness of well-known threats and solutions seems to be quite low for individuals in decision-making roles. They also provide insights into which threats and solutions are cyber and information security decision-makers the least aware of. We uncovered that awareness of certain threats and solutions is positively associated with either adoption of advanced antimalware solutions with EDR/XDR capabilities or adoption of SOC. Additionally, we identified significant organizational factors (organizational role type) and personal characteristics (gender, age, experience with information security and experience with IT) related to cybersecurity awareness of cyber and information security decision-makers. Organization size and formal education were not significant. These results offer insights that can be leveraged in targeted cybersecurity training tailored to the needs of groups of cyber and information security decision-makers based on these key factors. Recently, reinforcement and deep reinforcement learning (RL/DRL) have been applied to develop autonomous agents for cyber network operations(CyOps), where the agents are trained in a representative environment using RL and particularly DRL algorithms. The training environment must simulate CyOps with high fidelity, which the agent aims to learn and accomplish. A good simulator is hard to achieve due to the extreme complexity of the cyber environment. The trained agent must also be generalizable to network variations because operational cyber networks change constantly. The red agent case is taken to discuss these two issues in this work. We elaborate on their essential requirements and potential solution options, illustrated by some preliminary experimentations in a Cyber Gym for Intelligent Learning (CyGIL) testbed. Nation-sponsored cyberattacks pose a significant threat to national security by targeting critical infrastructure and disrupting essential services. One of the most impactful cyber threats affecting South Korea's banking sector and infrastructure was the DarkSeoul cyberattack, which occurred several years ago. Believed to have been orchestrated by North Korean state-sponsored hackers, the attack employed spear phishing, DNS poisoning, and malware to compromise systems, causing widespread disruption. In this paper, we conduct an in-depth analysis of the DarkSeoul attack, examining the techniques used and providing insights and defense recommendations for the global cybersecurity community. The motivations behind the attack are explored, along with an assessment of South Korea's response and the broader implications for cybersecurity policy. Our analysis highlights the vulnerabilities exploited and underscores the need for more proactive defenses against state-sponsored cyber threats. This paper emphasizes the critical need for stronger national cybersecurity defenses in the face of such threats. In this paper, a novel cyber-insurance model design is proposed based on system risk evaluation with smart technology applications. The cyber insurance policy for power systems is tailored via cyber risk modeling, reliability impact analysis, and insurance premium calculation. A stochastic Epidemic Network Model is developed to evaluate the cyber risk by propagating cyberattacks among graphical vulnerabilities. Smart technologies deployed in risk modeling include smart monitoring and job thread assignment. Smart monitoring boosts the substation availability against cyberattacks with preventive and corrective measures. The job thread assignment solution reduces the execution failures by distributing the control and monitoring tasks to multiple threads. Reliability assessment is deployed to estimate load losses convertible to monetary losses. These monetary losses would be shared through a mutual insurance plan. To ensure a fair distribution of indemnity, a new Shapley mutual insurance principle is devised. Effectiveness of the proposed Shapley mutual insurance design is validated via case studies. The Shapley premium is compared with existent premium designs. It is shown that the Shapley premium has high indemnity levels closer to those of Tail Conditional Expectation premium. Meanwhile, the Shapley premium is nearly as affordable as the coalitional premium and keeps a relatively low insolvency probability. Self-Healing Cyber-Physical Systems (SH-CPS) effectively recover from system perceived failures without human intervention. They ensure a level of resilience and tolerance to unforeseen situations that arise from intrinsic system and component degradation, errors, or malicious attacks. Implicit redundancy can be exploited in SH-CPS to structurally adapt without the need to explicitly duplicate components. However, implicitly redundant components do not guarantee the same level of dependability as the primary component used to provide for a given function. Additional processes are needed to restore critical system functionalities as desired. This work introduces implicit guarantees to ensure the dependability of implicitly redundant components and processes. Implicit guarantees can be obtained through inheritance and decomposition. Therefore, a level of dependability can be guaranteed in SH-CPS after adaptation and recovery while complying with requirements. We demonstrate compliance with the requirement guarantees while ensuring resilience in SH-CPS. Recent advancements in deep learning techniques have opened new possibilities for designing solutions for autonomous cyber defence. Teams of intelligent agents in computer network defence roles may reveal promising avenues to safeguard cyber and kinetic assets. In a simulated game environment, agents are evaluated on their ability to jointly mitigate attacker activity in host-based defence scenarios. Defender systems are evaluated against heuristic attackers with the goals of compromising network confidentiality, integrity, and availability. Value-based Independent Learning and Centralized Training Decentralized Execution (CTDE) cooperative Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL) methods are compared revealing that both approaches outperform a simple multi-agent heuristic defender. This work demonstrates the ability of cooperative MARL to learn effective cyber defence tactics against varied threats. In recent years machine learning algorithms, and more specifically deep learning algorithms, have been widely used in many fields, including cyber security. However, machine learning systems are vulnerable to adversarial attacks, and this limits the application of machine learning, especially in non-stationary, adversarial environments, such as the cyber security domain, where actual adversaries (e.g., malware developers) exist. This paper comprehensively summarizes the latest research on adversarial attacks against security solutions based on machine learning techniques and illuminates the risks they pose. First, the adversarial attack methods are characterized based on their stage of occurrence, and the attacker's goals and capabilities. Then, we categorize the applications of adversarial attack and defense methods in the cyber security domain. Finally, we highlight some characteristics identified in recent research and discuss the impact of recent advancements in other adversarial learning domains on future research directions in the cyber security domain. This paper is the first to discuss the unique challenges of implementing end-to-end adversarial attacks in the cyber security domain, map them in a unified taxonomy, and use the taxonomy to highlight future research directions. This chapter aims to aid the development of Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) in automated understanding of events and activities in various applications of video-surveillance. These events are mostly captured by drones, CCTVs or novice and unskilled individuals on low-end devices. Being unconstrained, these videos are immensely challenging due to a number of quality factors. We present an extensive account of the various approaches taken to solve the problem over the years. This ranges from methods as early as Structure from Motion (SFM) based approaches to recent solution frameworks involving deep neural networks. We show that the long-term motion patterns alone play a pivotal role in the task of recognizing an event. Consequently each video is significantly represented by a fixed number of key-frames using a graph-based approach. Only the temporal features are exploited using a hybrid Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) + Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) architecture. The results we obtain are encouraging as they outperform standard temporal CNNs and are at par with those using spatial information along with motion cues. Further exploring multistream models, we conceive a multi-tier fusion strategy for the spatial and temporal wings of a network. A consolidated representation of the respective individual prediction vectors on video and frame levels is obtained using a biased conflation technique. The fusion strategy endows us with greater rise in precision on each stage as compared to the state-of-the-art methods, and thus a powerful consensus is achieved in classification. Results are recorded on four benchmark datasets widely used in the domain of action recognition, namely CCV, HMDB, UCF-101 and KCV. It is inferable that focusing on better classification of the video sequences certainly leads to robust actuation of a system designed for event surveillance and object cum activity tracking. This paper demonstrates the potential for autonomous cyber defence to be applied on industrial control systems and provides a baseline environment to further explore Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning's (MARL) application to this problem domain. It introduces a simulation environment, IPMSRL, of a generic Integrated Platform Management System (IPMS) and explores the use of MARL for autonomous cyber defence decision-making on generic maritime based IPMS Operational Technology (OT). OT cyber defensive actions are less mature than they are for Enterprise IT. This is due to the relatively brittle nature of OT infrastructure originating from the use of legacy systems, design-time engineering assumptions, and lack of full-scale modern security controls. There are many obstacles to be tackled across the cyber landscape due to continually increasing cyber-attack sophistication and the limitations of traditional IT-centric cyber defence solutions. Traditional IT controls are rarely deployed on OT infrastructure, and where they are, some threats aren't fully addressed. In our experiments, a shared critic implementation of Multi Agent Proximal Policy Optimisation (MAPPO) outperformed Independent Proximal Policy Optimisation (IPPO). MAPPO reached an optimal policy (episode outcome mean of 1) after 800K timesteps, whereas IPPO was only able to reach an episode outcome mean of 0.966 after one million timesteps. Hyperparameter tuning greatly improved training performance. Across one million timesteps the tuned hyperparameters reached an optimal policy whereas the default hyperparameters only managed to win sporadically, with most simulations resulting in a draw. We tested a real-world constraint, attack detection alert success, and found that when alert success probability is reduced to 0.75 or 0.9, the MARL defenders were still able to win in over 97.5% or 99.5% of episodes, respectively. Protecting state-of-the-art AI-based cybersecurity defense systems from cyber attacks is crucial. Attackers create adversarial examples by adding small changes (i.e., perturbations) to the attack features to evade or fool the deep learning model. This paper introduces the concept of low-level behavioral adversarial examples and its threat model of evasive ransomware. We formulate the method and the threat model to generate the optimal source code of evasive malware. We then examine the method using the leaked source code of Conti ransomware with the micro-behavior control function. The micro-behavior control function is our test component to simulate changing source code in ransomware; ransomware's behavior can be changed by specifying the number of threads, file encryption ratio, and delay after file encryption at the boot time. We evaluated how much an attacker can control the behavioral features of ransomware using the micro-behavior control function to decrease the detection rate of a ransomware detector. The design of attacks for cyber physical systems is critical to assess CPS resilience at design time and run-time, and to generate rich datasets from testbeds for research. Attacks against cyber physical systems distinguish themselves from IT attacks in that the main objective is to harm the physical system. Therefore, both cyber and physical system knowledge are needed to design such attacks. The current practice to generate attacks either focuses on the cyber part of the system using IT cyber security existing body of knowledge, or uses heuristics to inject attacks that could potentially harm the physical process. In this paper, we present a systematic approach to automatically generate integrity attacks from the CPS safety and control specifications, without knowledge of the physical system or its dynamics. The generated attacks violate the system operational and safety requirements, hence present a genuine test for system resilience. We present an algorithm to automate the malware payload development. Several examples are given throughout the paper to illustrate the proposed approach. The offshore oil and gas industry has recently been going through a digitalisation drive, with use of `smart' equipment using technologies like the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) and Industrial Cyber-Physical Systems (ICPS). There has also been a corresponding increase in cyber attacks targeted at oil and gas companies. Oil production offshore is usually in remote locations, requiring remote access and control. This is achieved by integrating ICPS, Supervisory, Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems, and IIoT technologies. A successful cyber attack against an oil and gas offshore asset could have a devastating impact on the environment, marine ecosystem and safety of personnel. Any disruption to the world's supply of oil and gas (O\&G) can also have an effect on oil prices and in turn, the global economy. This makes it important to secure the industry against cyber threats. We describe the potential cyberattack surface within the oil and gas industry, discussing emerging trends in the offshore sub-sector, and provide a timeline of known cyberattacks. We also present a case study of a subsea control system architecture typically used in offshore oil and gas operations and highlight potential vulnerabilities affecting the components of the system. This study is the first to provide a detailed analysis on the attack vectors in a subsea control system and is crucial to understanding key vulnerabilities, primarily to implement efficient mitigation methods that safeguard the safety of personnel and the environment when using such systems. Digital embedded systems in safety-critical cyber-physical-systems (CPSs) require high levels of resilience and robustness against different fault classes. In recent years, self-healing concepts based on biological physiology have received attention for the design and implementation of reliable systems. However, many of these approaches have not been architected from the outset with safety in mind, nor have they been targeted for the safety-related automation industry where the significant need exists. This study presents a new self-healing hardware architecture inspired by integrating biological concepts, fault tolerance techniques, and IEC 61131-3 operational schematics to facilitate adaption in automation and critical infrastructure. The proposed architecture is organised in two levels: the critical functions layer used for providing the intended service of the application and the healing layer that continuously monitors the correct execution of that application and generates health syndromes to heal any failure occurrence inside the functions layer. Finally, two industrial applications have been mapped on this architecture to date, and the authors believe the nexus of its concepts can positively impact the next generation of critical CPSs in industrial automation. Malware remains a big threat to cyber security, calling for machine learning based malware detection. While promising, such detectors are known to be vulnerable to evasion attacks. Ensemble learning typically facilitates countermeasures, while attackers can leverage this technique to improve attack effectiveness as well. This motivates us to investigate which kind of robustness the ensemble defense or effectiveness the ensemble attack can achieve, particularly when they combat with each other. We thus propose a new attack approach, named mixture of attacks, by rendering attackers capable of multiple generative methods and multiple manipulation sets, to perturb a malware example without ruining its malicious functionality. This naturally leads to a new instantiation of adversarial training, which is further geared to enhancing the ensemble of deep neural networks. We evaluate defenses using Android malware detectors against 26 different attacks upon two practical datasets. Experimental results show that the new adversarial training significantly enhances the robustness of deep neural networks against a wide range of attacks, ensemble methods promote the robustness when base classifiers are robust enough, and yet ensemble attacks can evade the enhanced malware detectors effectively, even notably downgrading the VirusTotal service. Traditional control environments connected to physical systems are being upgraded with novel information and communication technologies. The resulting systems need to be adequately protected. Experimental testbeds are crucial for the study and analysis of ongoing threats against those resulting cyber-physical systems. The research presented in this paper discusses some actions towards the development of a replicable and affordable cyber-physical testbed for training and research. The architecture of the testbed is based on real-world components, and emulates cyber-physical scenarios commanded by SCADA (Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition) technologies. We focus on two representative protocols, Modbus and DNP3. The paper reports as well the development of some adversarial scenarios, in order to evaluate the testbed under cyber-physical threat situations. Some detection strategies are evaluated using our proposed testbed. This paper sets the context for the urgency for cyber autonomy, and the current gaps of the cyber security industry. A novel framework proposing four phases of maturity for full cyber autonomy will be discussed. The paper also reviews new and emerging cyber security automation techniques and tools, and discusses their impact on society, the perceived cyber security skills gap/shortage and national security. We will also be discussing the delicate balance between national security, human rights and ethics, and the potential demise of the manual penetration testing industry in the face of automation. Cyber-attacks can occur at machine speeds that are far too fast for human-in-the-loop (or sometimes on-the-loop) decision making to be a viable option. Although human inputs are still important, a defensive Artificial Intelligence (AI) system must have considerable autonomy in these circumstances. When the AI system is model-based, its behavior responses can be aligned with risk-aware cost/benefit tradeoffs that are defined by user-supplied preferences that capture the key aspects of how human operators understand the system, the adversary and the mission. This paper describes an approach to automated cyber response that is designed along these lines. We combine a simulation of the system to be defended with an anytime online planner to solve cyber defense problems characterized as partially observable Markov decision problems (POMDPs). Ransomware is a growing threat to individuals and enterprises alike, constituting a major factor in cyber insurance and in the security planning of every organization. Although the game theoretic lens often frames the game as a competition between equals -- a profit maximizing attacker and a loss minimizing defender -- the reality of many situations is that ransomware organizations are not playing a non-cooperative game, they are playing a lottery. The wanton behavior of attackers creates a situation where many victims are hit more than once by ransomware operators, sometimes even by the same group. If defenders wish to combat malware, they must then seek to remove the incentives of it. In this work, we construct an expected value model based on data from actual ransomware attacks and identify three variables: the value of payments, the cost of an attack, and the probability of payment. Using this model, we consider the potential to manipulate these variables to reduce the profit motive associated with ransomware attack. Based on the model, we present mitigations to encourage an environment that is hostile to ransomware operators. In particular, we find that off-site backups and government incentives for their adoption are the most fruitful avenue for combating ransomware. The rapid development of IoT applications and their use in various fields of everyday life has resulted in an escalated number of different possible cyber-threats, and has consequently raised the need of securing IoT devices. Collecting Cyber-Threat Intelligence (e.g., zero-day vulnerabilities or trending exploits) from various online sources and utilizing it to proactively secure IoT systems or prepare mitigation scenarios has proven to be a promising direction. In this work, we focus on social media monitoring and investigate real-time Cyber-Threat Intelligence detection from the Twitter stream. Initially, we compare and extensively evaluate six different machine-learning based classification alternatives trained with vulnerability descriptions and tested with real-world data from the Twitter stream to identify the best-fitting solution. Subsequently, based on our findings, we propose a novel social media monitoring system tailored to the IoT domain; the system allows users to identify recent/trending vulnerabilities and exploits on IoT devices. Finally, to aid research on the field and support the reproducibility of our results we publicly release all annotated datasets created during this process.